# Introduction to Web Programming with Java

* A web application is a set of web pages that are generated in response to user requests. 
* The internet has many different types of web applications, such as search engines, online stores, auctions, news sites, discussion groups, and games.

## Components of a web application

Client ------------------- Internet Connection ------------------- Server

* Web applications are a type of **client/server application**. 
  * In a client/server applica­tion, a user at a client computer accesses an application at a server computer.
  * For a web application, the client and server computers are **connected via the Internet or an intranet**.
* In a web application, the user works with a **web browser at the client computer**.
  * The web browser provides the user interface for the application.
* A web application runs on the server computer under the control of web server software.
* For most web applications, the server computer also runs a database management system (DBMS), which is also known as a database server.

## How a web server processes static web pages

* **Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)** is the language that the web browser converts into the web pages of a web application.
* A static web page is an HTML document that's **stored in a file and does not change** in response to user input (htm or html extensions).
* **Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)** is the protocol that web browsers and web servers use to communicate.
* A **web browser requests a page from a web server** by sending the server a message known as an **HTTP request**.
* A **web server replies to an HTTP request** by sending a message known as an **HTTP response** back to the browser.

## How dynamic web pages work

* A dynamic web page is an HTML document that's generated by a web applica­tion. 
* When a web server receives a request for a dynamic web page, the server passes the request to the web application. Then, the application generates a response, such as an HTML document, and returns it to the web server. The web server, in turn, wraps the generated HTML document in an HTTP response and sends it back to the browser.
* Most modern web applications store and retrieve data from a database that runs on a database server.

